This is a tool for running Wayland applications on an X server,
preferably with a compositing manager running.

It is not yet complete.  What is not yet implemented includes support
for the primary selection, touchscreens, input methods, device
switching in dmabuf feedback, and the viewporter protocol extension.

There are also problems with output reporting in subsurfaces.

It is not portable to systems other than recent versions of GNU/Linux
running the X.Org server 1.20 or later, and has not been tested on
window (and compositing) managers other than GNOME Shell.

It will not work very well unless the compositing manager supports the
EWMH frame synchronization protocol.

Building and running this tool requires the following X protocol
extensions:

  Nonrectangular Window Shape Extension, version 1.1 or later
  MIT Shared Memory Extension, version 1.2 or later
  X Resize, Rotate and Reflect Extension, version 1.3 or later
    (this will soon be 1.4, once support for multiple GPU
     systems is fully implemented)
  X Synchronization Extension, version 1.0 or later
  X Rendering Extension, version 1.2 or later
  X Input Extension, version 2.3 or later
  Direct Rendering Interface 3, version 1.2 or later
  X Fixes Extension, version 1 or later

In addition, it requires Xlib to be built with the XCB transport, and
the XCB bindings for MIT-SHM and DRI3 to be available.

The following Wayland protocols are implemented to a more-or-less
complete degree:

  'wl_output',                                  version:  2
  'wl_compositor',                              version:  5
  'wl_shm',                                     version:  1
  'xdg_wm_base',                                version:  5
  'wl_subcompositor',                           version:  1
  'wl_seat',                                    version:  7
  'wl_data_device_manager',                     version:  3
  'zwp_linux_dmabuf_v1',                        version:  4

With the main caveat being that zwp_linux_dmabuf_v1 has no real
support for multiple-provider setups (help wanted).

Primary selections and window decorations are also not supported, even
though they fit in nicely with X window management.

It would also be nice to have pinch gesture support in wl_pointer.

This directory is organized as follows:

  Imakefile     - the top level Makefile template
  libraries.def - files for libraries that don't provide Imakefiles
  *.xml         - Wayland protocol definition source
  *.c, *.h      - C source code

Building the source code is simple, provided that you have the
necessary libwayland-server library, wayland-scanner, pixman, XCB, and
X extension libraries installed:

  xmkmf # to generate the Makefile
  make  # to build the binary

Running the binary should be simple as well:

  ./12to11

Wayland programs will then run as regular X windows.
